in a rainforest to see a truly dreadful
scene
you only need to look carefully under
your feet there's a group of ants
walking by between thickets of grass
these creatures are very hard working
they spend every day getting food and
improving their anthill
each of them works for the common good
the long column of ants is heading home
after a hard day's work
some carry seeds others haul twigs to
strengthen their home
if the group is attacked the ants will
fight together
but the enemy approaching the squad
right now is too small
even tiny ants can't see it a minuscule
almost invisible fungal spore flutters
through the air
and lands on the back of an ant its
body's covered in armor that protects it
from any danger
but the spore attaches itself and creeps
between the shield plates
of course the unlucky insect doesn't
suspect anything
and goes home the next day passes as
usual
the ant works for the good of the
anthill the strange thing that got
inside it
doesn't make itself known another few
days pass
the ant still feels fine but the spore
inside its body
is growing slowly it takes over its
nervous system
a week after the infection the ant
begins to behave
strangely it doesn't sleep well doesn't
work hard
one day it leaves the colony unnoticed
the parasite spore has taken control of
the ants mussels
the insect wanders the forest in search
of the perfect spot
perfect for the spore the ant doesn't
control its own body anymore
it climbs a blade of grass or a bush to
a height of 10 inches
grabs the stem with its jaws and waits
till the end of its life the parasite
spreads throughout the body
and crawls out days later every day
it increases in size until it takes the
form
of a mushroom then when the fungus is
fully grown
it releases hundreds of thousands of
tiny spores into the air
these spores are scattered throughout
the forest one of them falls on the back
of another unsuspecting ant and it
starts
all over again this cordyceps fungus
lives in the rainforests of thailand
africa and brazil
and has been infecting ants for tens of
millions of years
some parasites are even more inventive
like the ladybird parasite
it's not a fungus or virus but a wasp
when this creature is about to lay eggs
it looks for an ideal nanny for its kids
and the ladybird becomes a perfect
candidate
the wasp flies up to the red and black
beetle and stings it
through the sting the wasp releases one
egg
for the next 20 days the parasite
develops inside the ladybird
when it's fully grown it crawls out but
the
nanny job isn't done yet the larva
creates a cocoon between the ladybird's
hind legs
inside it will turn into an adult wasp
until then the ladybird will keep the
cocoon safe
the larva makes a bodyguard out of its
host
scientists are still unsure exactly how
the parasite manipulates the host
it might be the larva injects some
poison into the ladybird
that turns on its guardian instincts
other insects and animals are wary of
ladybirds because of their venom
so if a predator sees the red and black
spotted shield
it'll probably stay away but if someone
dares approach
the infected ladybird will pull up its
legs and try to protect the cocoon
with all its might when the wasp inside
the cocoon is formed
it leaves its bodyguard sometimes the
ladybird stays alive after that
wasps can ruin not only ladybirds lives
but some spiders ones too
web manipulating wasps fly around the
rainforests
looking for the perfect host one of them
notices a spider hunched on its web
the wasp flies closer but it's not gonna
bite
it just drops the egg on the spider's
back
when the larva hatches it starts feeding
on the spider
then it injects a chemical that alters
the spider's mind
the host begins to weave a stronger web
with a different pattern
and shape this web is going to be a new
safe place for the larva
where it will turn into an adult wasp
the larva leaves the spider when the job
is finished
clings to the web and creates a cocoon
inside it turns into a wasp and flies
away to procreate
and find a host parasites can not only
be found on land
there are lots of them lurking under
water let's go down into the sea depths
we see a school of jellyfish some sharks
octopuses
dolphins but you should pay attention to
the lonely little clown fish
it slowly swims among the corals and
algae trying to get some food
it notices some seaweed and swallows it
we follow it into the fish's mouth and
see two
tiny black eyes staring at us from there
what you're gazing at isn't an organ but
a tongue-eating
fish parasite it's a crustacean that
enters the fish's mouth through the
gills
and clings to the tongue with time the
parasite just replaces the organ
and performs its function fortunately
the unsuspecting fish doesn't feel
anything
if you notice a strange tongue inside a
fish you've just caught
don't try to unhook the parasite it can
bite you
yeah all these parasites live in the
deep jungles and deeper seas
so people don't worry too much about
them but there's one that lives
everywhere including your home
toxoplasma
is a single-celled parasite it's found
in raw meat
inside animals and in dirty places but
its favorite place to be
is inside cat intestines
somewhere in the streets a stray cat
answers nature's call
the waste infected with toxoplasma gets
into the sewers
and mixes with water a mouse runs along
the sewage pipes
it drinks the water and toxoplasma
enters its body
some time passes the mouse runs along
dark alleys
among garbage cans looking for food then
it gets into someone's house it runs
inside the wall
and gets to the kitchen through a small
hole there
a cat notices the rodent but the mouse
runs away
and at this very moment the parasite
triggers a reaction within the mouse's
brain
through its hormones the toxoplasma
wants only one thing
to get to the cat's intestines the
parasite changes its host's behavior
the mouse becomes bolder it's attracted
by the cat's smell
so it comes out of hiding the cat
catches the mouse
and toxoplasma reaches its goal
the bad news is that people can also get
infected with the parasite you can eat
an infected piece of meat
or pet an infected cat of course
a human is unlikely to get into a cat's
mouth but research suggests
that toxoplasma might affect people's
behavior in different ways
it may make people more restless prone
to risk
guilt and self-doubt
scientists think that from 10 percent to
as much as 60 percent of all people in
the world
are infected with toxoplasma this number
may be greater than the number of people
connected to the internet
meet the parasite you should probably be
afraid of
the loa loa worm another bad thing that
can bring a lot of trouble
it lives in west africa some species of
flies are carriers of this creature
just one infected fly bites you and the
tiny worm penetrates your skin
it crawls all over your body feeding on
your fluids
these parasites can live inside your
body for 17 years
and you may not even notice them until
they reach your eyes
then you just might actually see the
parasite crawling right in front of you
the good news is getting rid of lo aloa
isn't very difficult
as strange as it may sound parasites are
very useful for life on earth
to resist a parasite the body must
constantly fight
and come up with new ways to defeat the
enemy
this stimulates the development of body
protection
our immune system becomes stronger in
this confrontation
parasites control the population of many
living things
the number of insect pests will increase
if parasites disappear
insects will eat entire crops and be
able to plunge humanity
into hunger many scientists support not
the extermination of parasites
but their preservation parasites are
used in medicine
leeches are parasites but they help
purify human blood
if you get sick with a virus and can't
be cured another
virus might be able to defeat it